ref: http://nil.csail.mit.edu/6.824/2015/labs/lab-4.html

Introduction

In this lab you'll build a key/value storage system that "shards," or partitions, the keys over a set of replica groups. A shard is a subset of the key/value pairs; for example, all the keys starting with "a" might be one shard, all the keys starting with "b" another, etc. The reason for sharding is performance. Each replica group handles puts and gets for just a few of the shards, and the groups operate in parallel; thus total system throughput (puts and gets per unit time) increases in proportion to the number of groups.

Your sharded key/value store will have two main components. First, a set of replica groups. Each replica group is responsible for a subset of the shards. A replica consists of a handful of servers that use Paxos to replicate the group's shard. The second component is the "shard master". The shard master decides which replica group should serve each shard; this information is called the configuration. The configuration changes over time. Clients consult the shard master in order to find the replica group for a key, and replica groups consult the master in order to find out what shards to serve. There is a single shard master for the whole system, implemented as a fault-tolerant service using Paxos.

A sharded storage system must be able to shift shards among replica groups. One reason is that some groups may become more loaded than others, so that shards need to be moved to balance the load. Another reason is that replica groups may join and leave the system: new replica groups may be added to increase capacity, or existing replica groups may be taken offline for repair or retirement.

The main challenge in this lab will be handling reconfiguration in the replica groups. Within a single replica group, all group members must agree on when a reconfiguration occurs relative to client Put/Append/Get requests. For example, a Put may arrive at about the same time as a reconfiguration that causes the replica group to stop being responsible for the shard holding the Put's key. All replicas in the group must agree on whether the Put occurred before or after the reconfiguration. If before, the Put should take effect and the new owner of the shard will see its effect; if after, the Put won't take effect and client must re-try at the new owner. The recommended approach is to have each replica group use Paxos to log not just the sequence of Puts, Appends, and Gets but also the sequence of reconfigurations.

Reconfiguration also requires interaction among the replica groups. For example, in configuration 10 group G1 may be responsible for shard S1. In configuration 11, group G2 may be responsible for shard S1. During the reconfiguration from 10 to 11, G1 must send the contents of shard S1 (the key/value pairs) to G2. 

 You will need to ensure that at most one replica group is serving requests for each shard. Luckily it is reasonable to assume that each replica group is always available, because each group uses Paxos for replication and thus can tolerate some network and server failures. As a result, your design can rely on one group to actively hand off responsibility to another group during reconfiguration. This is simpler than the situation in primary/backup replication (Lab 2), where the old primary is often not reachable and may still think it is primary.

Only RPC may be used for interaction between clients and servers, between different servers, and between different clients. For example, different instances of your server are not allowed to share Go variables or files.

This lab's general architecture (a configuration service and a set of replica groups) is patterned at a high level on a number of systems: Flat Datacenter Storage, BigTable, Spanner, FAWN, Apache HBase, Rosebud, and many others. These systems differ in many details from this lab, though, and are also typically more sophisticated and capable. For example, your lab lacks persistent storage for key/value pairs and for the Paxos log; it sends more messages than required per Paxos agreement; it cannot evolve the sets of peers in each Paxos group; its data and query models are very simple; and handoff of shards is slow and doesn't allow concurrent client access. 

Part A: The Shard Master

First you'll implement the shard master, in shardmaster/server.go. When you're done, you should pass all the tests in the shardmaster directory (after ignoring Go's many complaints):

$ cd ~/6.824/src/shardmaster
$ go test
Test: Basic leave/join ...
  ... Passed
Test: Historical queries ...
  ... Passed
Test: Move ...
  ... Passed
Test: Concurrent leave/join ...
  ... Passed
Test: Minimal transfers after joins ...
  ... Passed
Test: Minimal transfers after leaves ...
  ... Passed
Test: Concurrent leave/join, failure ...
  ... Passed
PASS
ok      shardmaster     11.200s
$

 The shardmaster manages a sequence of numbered configurations. Each configuration describes a set of replica groups and an assignment of shards to replica groups. Whenever this assignment needs to change, the shard master creates a new configuration with the new assignment. Key/value clients and servers contact the shardmaster when they want to know the current (or a past) configuration.

Your implementation must support the RPC interface described in shardmaster/common.go, which consists of Join, Leave, Move, and Query RPCs. You should not change common.go or client.go.

You don't need to implement duplicate client request detection for RPCs to the shard master that might fail or repeat due to network issues. A real system would need to do so, but these labs don't require it. You'll still need to deal with clients sending multiple Joins or Leaves to the shardmaster.

You do need to detect duplicate client RPCs to the shardkv service in Part B. Please make sure that your scheme for duplicate detection frees server memory quickly, for example by having the client tell the servers which RPCs it has heard a reply for. It's OK to piggyback this information on the next client request.

The Join RPC's arguments are a unique non-zero replica group identifier (GID) and an array of server ports. The shardmaster should react by creating a new configuration that includes the new replica group. The new configuration should divide the shards as evenly as possible among the groups, and should move as few shards as possible to achieve that goal.

The Leave RPC's arguments are the GID of a previously joined group. The shardmaster should create a new configuration that does not include the group, and that assigns the group's shards to the remaining groups. The new configuration should divide the shards as evenly as possible among the groups, and should move as few shards as possible to achieve that goal.

The Move RPC's arguments are a shard number and a GID. The shardmaster should create a new configuration in which the shard is assigned to the group. The main purpose of Move is to allow us to test your software, but it might also be useful to fine-tune load balance if some shards are more popular than others or some replica groups are slower than others. A Join or Leave following a Move will likely un-do the Move, since Join and Leave re-balance.

The Query RPC's argument is a configuration number. The shardmaster replies with the configuration that has that number. If the number is -1 or bigger than the biggest known configuration number, the shardmaster should reply with the latest configuration. The result of Query(-1) should reflect every Join, Leave, or Move that completed before the Query(-1) RPC was sent.

The very first configuration should be numbered zero. It should contain no groups, and all shards should be assigned to GID zero (an invalid GID). The next configuration (created in response to a Join RPC) should be numbered 1, &c. There will usually be significantly more shards than groups (i.e., each group will serve more than one shard), in order that load can be shifted at a fairly fine granularity.

Your shardmaster must be fault-tolerant, using your Paxos library from Lab 3. 

Hint: start with a stripped-down copy of your kvpaxos server.

Hint: Go maps are references. If you assign one variable of type map to another, both variables refer to the same map. Thus if you want to create a new Config based on a previous one, you need to create a new map object (with make()) and copy the keys and values individually. 
